What does it do? 
 

In general terms, Cloud computing is the delivery of various, on-demand, hosted computing services, over the internet (hence the term ‘cloud’).  Cloud Computing offers a wide range of features such as data storage, servers, databases, software, analytics, intelligence as well as other standard office applications. 
Cloud computing can take many forms, falling into four broad categories:
•	infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
•	platform as a service (PaaS)
•	serverless 
•	and software as a service (SaaS)
These are sometimes referred to as the cloud computing "stack" since they build on top of one another. 


What can be done now? 
Presently, Cloud computing encompasses a wide array of options now, from services as basic as data storage and networking to natural language processing and artificial intelligence as well as other common office applications.  

The use of cloud computing is everywhere. Google drive is a great example of cloud computing service, as it has all of its storage online, enabling users to work with Google’s cloud applications; Google Docs, Google Sheets, and Google Slides. (Griffith 2016) Similarly, Netflix also depends on cloud computing services to operate its video streaming service.  All in all, it is safe to say that any service that does not require users to be physically close to the computer hardware, that they are using, can now be delivered through the cloud. 

What is likely to be able to do be done in the next 3 years? 
Although difficult to predict the future of a such a rapidly evolving industry, it is however possible to make predictions, by analysing the current trends and usage. Almost everything in this digital era is linked to the cloud computing in some way or another. As tech developers keep modifying and finding new ways to organise, process and present data, cloud computing will become a more and more essential necessity in our lives. With the assist from other technological developments, the quality of Cloud Computing could be improved significantly. With the rise in demand and need of better cloud solutions and methods, it is likely that, in the next three years, most cloud computing service will be mainstreaming of something as complex as super-computing technology (Durrani 2019).  With such development on the horizon, it is safe to say the future of cloud computing is very promising. 

What technological or other developments make this possible? 
A technological development that could bring these ideas into reality is quantum computing. Quantum computing is the next ground-breaking development which is set to transform the IT industry. This system uses highly complex quantum physics concepts to enhance the processing power of computers. It stores data in qubits, which is a faster and simpler of form data, thus empowering it to process large and complex data significantly quicker. It does not only provide with faster movement of data through the hardware, but it also ensures smooth flow of information stream. Base on present findings, users will be able to access the quantum computers using the internet. Renowned companies such as IBM, AWS, Microsoft Azure Cloud, and Google Cloud are currently working on quantum computing to bring forth the best cloud-based tools. (Karlsson, 2019) 

What is the likely impact? 
What is the potential impact of this development? 
Prior To the introduction of Cloud computing, users were forced to keep their computing infrastructure or data centres on proprietary hard drives or local storage devices. These practices were extremely problematic as On-site data centres typically require intricate procedures such as hardware setup, software patching, and other time-consuming IT management chores as well as high maintenance costs. 
The game changing innovation that is Could computing, removes the need for many of these tasks, as software and platforms are managed by the cloud provider, thus helping users achieving more important business goals and in turn bringing faster innovation and flexible resources to the user. 

Which people will be most affected and how?
Cloud computing will mostly affect well stablished companies with the need to store and manage large amount of data. Progressively more companies are moving to using cloud computing technology over the traditional way of working. The recent increase in the amount of companies using Microsoft's newest cloud-based collaboration program, Office 365 is one instance of Cloud computing’s effect on big enterprises. Cloud service providers will offer companies on-demand computing power that enables them to appropriately invest only for the essential resources they need. As a result, companies can save time and money while making them more agile and responsive. (Alderton 2019)

Will this create, replace or make redundant any current jobs or technologies?
It is anticipated that, in the next 5-10 years, Cloud computing will heavily affect most IT based jobs.  The implementation of cloud computing will drift away IT positions opposed to completely eradicating them. As organisations relocate their services to the cloud, some in-house IT jobs within organisations are predicted to see reduced demand in the future. This could see jobs associated with in-house data and server management lose their positions. (Collabera 2019)
While some IT jobs are predicted to see a decreased demand, cloud providers however will be needing IT staff to take care of data regulation, distribution, and storage. As a result, IT professionals working in such fields will see increased demand.    




How will this affect you?
In your daily life, how will this affect you?
Cloud computing will affect my everyday life in a positive way. My use of Cloud computing will most likely be for storage services. As a student, it is essential to have reliable and easily accessible storage /back-up storage system. In this aspect, Cloud computing does an exceptional job. Once my data is stored in a Cloud storage, it is simpler to get the back-up and recovery of that, which could otherwise be an excessively time-consuming process on-premise.  Moreover, most clod storages, such as Google Drive, Mega etc being reasonably priced means that it will also cost-effective. Overall, cloud computing will have a positive impact on my daily life.    
What will be different for you?
A difference that cloud computing could bring is flexibility. Having a cloud storage means that I would no longer need to worry about checking that my data is saved in the ‘correct’ devices and go through the hassle of carrying hard drives in order to store large files. I would also avoid unfortunate events of forgetting important files stored on physical drives as well as physical damage of file storage devices. With could computing, I can access any data I desire at any time and have significantly larger capacity.     
How might this affect members of your family or your friends?
As for my family, cloud computing will bring the similar benefits to of mine, like Cost Savings,
Security, Flexibility. 
Additionally, collaborative work with friends and colleagues would be revolutionised. Cloud computing increases the efficiency of collaborative works and makes it a simple process. When working in teams, team members can view and share information easily and securely across a cloud-based platform. A great example of such Cloud service Is the platform GitHub, which was in-fact use to produce this project.    
